You will find explanations for my weirdness in this:

Ever since I was young, my parents have always been strict with me, to the point of verbal, physical and emotional abuse, and this has affected the person I have become.

When I was young, this meant I used to get hit all the time at home for not performing well at school (not performing well == 80% marks instead of 90%+). My mom used to shout at me in front of everyone else during parent-teacher meetings, to the point where I got bullied in my school for having a strict mother. This was embarassing for me, as a child of 10 years, to have to deal with. Getting verbally abused in front of the school for coming second in the class instead of first..

I was hit with belts, chappal, thrown down stairs, and anything she could her hands on in her anger, like pieces of glass decorations. So I became afraid of sharing anything with them because I was afraid of abuse. A few times they put mirch on my tongue and refused to give me water because I, a boy of 8,9,10 (?), was too afraid to tell them something. And if I tried to say anything back, I would get beaten more, coupled with emotional abuse that would make me submissive to the abuse. They never played with me or shared in my enthusiasm for things I cared about.

The emotional abuse was difficult to deal with. I didn't want to go with them to the family outings because I knew I would end up being beaten. And they would emotionally blackmail me, saying that I am not a good son for not spending time with family. They forced me to go and forcibly took photos with me on those outings, forced me to smile so they can pretend to be a loving family - and since then I can't get myself to smile in photos.

Over time, my studies became my escape from this abuse. It was the only time they would leave me alone. But it had an impact on my relationships with others. I didn't know what it meant to be to have a loving relationship:

(1) I no longer shared anything personal with anyone, and internalised all my struggles. I was too embarassed to share with my friends, and I couldn't share with my family.

(2) I craved affection that I was missing, so I started to take any I could get from anywhere. You could show me insignificant scraps of affection and I would savour it because that is the best I would get. Small things like an old woman saying thank you for helping her cross the road would make my day, and that was the only happiness I could get from others. I didn't even enjoy my own achievements; I have a bachelor's, master's and a PhD and I haven't been to any graduation ceremony, because I am conditioned to believe it is expected to achieve. Never celebrated a birthday.

This was all when I was a child, when I got older, it kept on happening with various incidents, too many to recount but of the same nature. I wanted to take part in sports competitions and they never supported me. I wanted to learn programming when I was young - they thought it was an excuse to play video games. My offer for university was AAA and I got AAB (B in chemistry - the first time I had not achieved what I wanted in a long time), and my mother stopped talking to me for days, until I found out that the university had accepted me anyways - what kind of mother stops talking to her child? But the emotional abuse was effective, because I was powerless to do anything - no matter what they said, I just had to stay silent and take it.

In university, I finally had space but even then, the abuse continued. "Why haven't you called?" "What kind of a son are you?" "God has given such a disobedient child". But by this point, my personality became what it is now - reserved and silent. No interest in the pleasures of life. No purpose in life.

Because of all this, I couldn't get myself to be in a relationship with anyone - when I fell in love with a girl from Lahore, I just didn't do anything because I thought I would not be able to give her the love she deserved because I didn't know what love was. So I stayed away. Numerous times, there were people interested in me, and I stayed away from love and commitment.

But this wasn't enough for them, they wanted more control. Which is where they again did something unforgiveable to me: When I was towards the end of my PhD, they started to pressurize me into getting married. It was never direct, it was indirect but I could feel it immensely. This was a completely bad idea - I was not emotionally (or even financially) ready for this. Eventually, I gave up resisting as they kept on eating at me; a third person introduced someone to me during a trip to Pakistan, and I took them to my parents and met that person once or twice, and then left back for the UK. And they arranged everything while I was away.

I ended up married to a person I knew nothing about, I wasn't allowed to meet, and we were strangers. And what a stupid decision - we were two completely different people. There was no love. No compatibility. And of course, there was no-one to seek help from because my parents would blame me and I was too embarassed to ask them for help. Now, my parents tell me "we always knew she was only into you because she wanted the nationality and your money - you were a fool to accept her", but they were the ones who pressurized me (?)

It went on for 2-3 years and then finally I ended it. It was extreme; she was using me for her gain to the point where I lost control of my own life. But that is its own story for another day. To this day, they still taunt me about every thing that has gone wrong with my life.

It took me years to heal from that. And then finally when I thought I could love again, then the rishta process started with my friend's sister, but that lasted for a year and like I have already told you, didn't work out.

Every now and then (like today), I receive emotionally abusive texts from them and it destroys me each time from the inside. I just wanted to be accepted and loved. I would give anything to have loving parents like yours. Who would sit with me and talk to me about things I like.

This is why I feel very deeply about love - I did not receive affection from anyone that I wanted it from. And I don't want anyone else to feel that way, because I understand how it feels. I will give everything to my wife and children and I want the cycle of abuse to end and I want a loving family whom I will raise with affection and love. I will be supportive of them in ways I was not supported. I understand the importance of love and affection and I will give it to my family.
